[Applause]
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with Parker Conrad,
co-founder and CEO of Ripling. Parker
needs no introduction as one of the most
admired founders in Silicon Valley.
We'll talk about his founder redemption
arc, why the conventional wisdom is
wrong and the biggest companies are
actually platform companies. the future
of the SAS industry in the age of AI,
leading teams with ownership, how he
thinks about going public, and why you
should only start a company if you have
no other options. Welcome, Parker.
Thanks so much for doing this.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
I think there's a very apt phrase that's
the best revenge is massive success.
What do you think you got wrong at
Zenits that you've done differently at
Ripling?
You know, in some sense there there are
kind of some superficial things. Um, but
I think like mostly like Zenits failed
for like dumb reasons. And so I, you
know, I don't think there were like a
ton of lessons. You know, there
obviously there were sort of some of the
specific things that kind of, you know,
led it to not work that, you know, you
you want to make sure not to repeat. I
mean, we're like ex we try to be like
really extremely extremely careful about
compliance at at Ripane and regulatory
compliance in particular. And then I
think at at at Zens, we we pro we leaned
way too much on on ops. And I think like
rippling has as a result of that, you
know, maybe just like a deep aversion to
to that and may maybe actually to our
detriment in some cases. Um, you know,
where we perhaps should be willing to,
you know, do things that don't scale um
a little more, but we tend to go just
really deep with with software at, you
know, and and sort of not take on um
sort of like operational, you know,
builds and overhead. Um, so those are
those are probably like the biggest
differences. I think there are probably
some other things that like I I took
away from the experience. Um but they're
they're much more general. I mean like I
think um you know for a long time early
on at at Ripling like you know I I felt
like it was just much easier to manage
like my own sort of psychology on this
stuff. I mean it's it's just really
hard. I always found it personally,
maybe I was just sort of not cut out for
this, but always found it personally
like very hard to sort of deal with kind
of the psychology of running a company,
like the big ups and downs. And um you
know, at Ripley, it was it was a lot
easier because no matter how bad things
got, I I sort of always had this thing
where I'm like, "Oh man, this like just
pales in comparison to how bad things
were, you know, right at the end and
just after I left at Zenits when things
got like really very dark." And so
there's this sort of like idea in
Silicon Valley that you should learn a
lot from failures. And I I I'm not sure
that I agree a lot with I I think that
actually people probably learn a lot
more from their successes. And you know,
companies fail for like many dumb
reasons and like it's really hard to
sort of take a lot of lessons away from
that. Um and actually you probably learn
a lot more by being at a company that's
working and seeing like how how it
works. I remember talking to you during
that period and when you were just
starting the company and I think you
said something to me like starting a
company sucks especially when you were
you know not in Silicon Valley and you
know the uh social sphere is good graces
at the time you were sort of fighting a
big reputational battle and you
described it as like well you're just
like sitting in your parents' basement
again and like nobody believes in what
you're doing that sucks what what made
you do it anyway and start over
I felt like I didn't have a lot of
choices to be honest honest,
you weren't going to work at Google.
I mean, I didn't have an offer, you
know, like I think I was personally like
probably pretty radioactive and and I
and I think it would have been hard for
me to get get a job. I've started three
companies and I think the first company
I started because I was naive and didn't
know what I was getting into and the
second company I started because I sort
of looked around and I'd been at the
first company for like seven or eight
years and kind of it was sort of
worthless from a resume perspective and
was sort of like totally unqualified for
you know any job that wasn't sort of
like entry level other than like maybe
starting another company. And so I felt
like h crap like this is I guess I'm
doing this again. Um, and then the third
time around it really felt like, you
know, this was kind of um, there weren't
really a lot of other options. And also
this was kind of like the one path that
that I sort of saw that maybe there was
this sort of narrow ray of light when
when sort of it felt like I was being
buried reputationally that like okay if
I if I could like build this specific
company and make it really successful.
you know, maybe there was some future
world where um you know, there would be
like a different story or a different
narrative or you know, a chance to kind
of like um you know, sort of tell my
side of the story on it.
So, in learning from you know, the
success um and as and as far as
Ripling's scale today, what have you
learned about founder psychology um for
yourself beyond perhaps uh well, you
could go through like a really bad
crucible and just assume it's not going
to get that bad again? I mean I
generally sometimes people come to me
and you know say you know starting a
company like do I have any advice like
what do I think about and my advice is
is pretty much always like don't do it
and it's because there are a number of
reasons I think that like you're you're
you're most people are likely to fail um
and I think that failure gets glamorized
inappropriately um or or just
incorrectly maybe um that you know you
don't actually usually take away a lot
from failure and it's extremely
destructive. It's destructive. It's
destructive to your psychology. It's
destructive to your your marriage, to
your relationships, you know, it's like
it's it's really hard. And so, like,
there there are a lot of costs to doing
this that I think are generally in most
cases like not worth it. And that's like
why I tell people they probably
shouldn't do it. Um, nobody ever follows
that advice, of course. You know, if
anything, it sort of like redoubles
everyone's resolve. But, um, but I I do
think that that's the case. And so I
don't I don't have an answer for why for
the sort of psychology piece. I think
there are some people that are just like
better at it um than than like I have
been in in my career.
I think of you as one of the nicest
angry people I know. Um but I remember I
I saw you it was maybe a year back and
you told me that you were uh hopefully
this is okay to say. You told me you
were worried you weren't angry enough
anymore to make Rippling as successful
as it should be. And I just burst out
like [__] laughing and said like,
"Well, like my friend, don't worry about
this. No one else is worried." Um, do
you think being angry is important? I
don't know if being angry is important,
but I think that there were at least in
the in early on for the first couple
years of Ripling, um this sort of like
um for me personally um this sort of
idea that this was like the only way and
this was the only thing and like this
the sort of focus of that um you know
was the first thing I thought about
every morning when I got out of bed and
it was the last thing that I thought
about when I went to sleep and it was
the thing that got me up in the middle
of the night, you know, and and I I
think that that was extremely
motivating, like not maybe not like
super healthy. It sort of got me through
a bunch of like difficult years and a
and a bunch of a bunch of sort of grind
because it is a grind for a number of
years. And I think like since then, um I
don't remember this conversation by the
way, but I think you know since then
like there are a lot of other like
motivations, you know, that are that are
there like I I really love the product
that we're building. I really like the
people um that I work with. So, there's
a lot that I enjoy about work. There are
a lot of other sort of like positive
motivations. Um um but yeah, you know,
the nature of like some of that other
stuff is it it starts to kind of fade
over time, you know, that's just the
reality.
You um has the ambition of Ripling
changed over time? It was always like a
wildly ambitious company. You're like,
"Oh, well, don't worry. we're going to
take HR and IT and identity and you know
do all of it all at once from the
beginning. And I remember talking to one
of your early engineers in the first I
don't know if it was like the first real
office or the first office but he was
just like yeah this is like we're going
to do Salesforce and I'm like Salesforce
took a long time to get there and he's
like we're going to do it all now. Um do
you I tried to remember who this was. Do
you do you uh feel like the ambition is
the same or is changing ambition part of
that? we've probably gotten better at
articulating like sort of how we think
about it. And so it started out with
just this like this belief that like
actually you all all of this these ideas
that people had that the way to build
great products were to like focus you
know really narrowly was wrong. um and
that actually the the right path was to
try and build um like a coherent product
suite um of seamlessly integrated and
and interoperable applications. At first
it was just like no no no we're going to
do like HR and IT and there are these
other things on the road map like you
know sort of finance and stuff like
that. Um, and I think over time, uh, we
we probably got like a little bit better
at articulating sort of why that why
that was. And I think the the best way
to express it is that I think that what
what people get wrong about software is
historically we've been building
software in this way where if you f you
focus really really narrowly on a very
specific domain or application area um,
and people think that you can sort of
craft these arteasonal products and
experiences that way. The problem that
you run into is that ultimately
companies end up having a lot of
different applications and that creates
a lot of problems for them. But also
these arteasonal software companies
really can't afford to invest in a set
of underlying capabilities that are
ultimately what make these applications
powerful for their customers. Um, and
that end up being repeated across a lot
of these different application areas. So
things like permissions and reports and
analytics and workflow automations and
approvals and like there's a set of
underlying capabilities in in business
software that end up being repeated and
relatively conserved across this just
broad array of domains. And if you're
building a lot of applications, you can
afford to invest much more deeply in
those areas and make what are ultimately
much better experiences for customers
because of that. Um, and you simply
can't afford to make that R&D lift if
you're building just one thing. And
that's also like if you sort of look
back like this isn't it's not really a
new idea. It's sort of an old idea that
that's coming again which is that you
you know this is the way you know Oracle
and SAP and Salesforce and Microsoft
were built was that sort of idea of like
building
you know what what they would call
platform you know that this underlying
set of capabilities that you then you
know use in sort of assembling all these
different applications. Um and that that
kind of articulation came later but I
think the sort of the fundamental idea
was like the company was deeply
committed to building software
religiously committed to building
software in this way like right from day
one.
So that's not been as you mentioned like
the conventional wisdom in building
software startups for maybe a decade and
a half now. Why do you think people miss
that? Because as you say like some of
the biggest software companies for a
time and I' I'd add like Epic to that
list, right? some of the biggest and
most powerful companies like the reason
they are so powerful is because they
work in an integrated way and they have
a lot to sell their customers but um I I
have a hypothesis I was wondering if you
do
I think it's because of like the
platform shift from like onrem to cloud
created a bunch of opportunities for
like a bunch of kind of like base hits
um you know with SAS where you could
sort of peel off like one one sort of
application area from these sort of big
onrem providers that you know just took
a long time to move to the cloud and and
get that really stood up and you could
you could very easily actually get a lot
of traction with something that was
extremely narrow and that was like good
enough for a period of time and I think
what happens is over time the bar goes
up in terms of what you need to be able
to do for clients and it's like no
longer enough to have like you know a
standalone SAS application you are
needing these other capabilities or
these these deeper capabilities and that
that sort of forces things like back
together. Um and I think like that's you
know sort of you know where where we're
going right now. It's it'll be
interesting to see you know with with AI
like how AI because some people would
argue like well AI is sort of like a
similar kind of shift from like onrem to
cloud and I I I probably don't agree. I
think it's actually probably more
centralizing as a technology. But that,
you know, that's that's kind of my view
on sort of what what triggered that at
least for a period of time.
I think that's right. I also think that
there I mean, you know, the latter half
of the SAS revolution has coincided with
like a massive bull market, right,
through like the 22 period, right? And I
think that um if you had internet
distribution of software to like
mid-market companies that could buy
online and rapidly, then Rippling might
be the exception to this, but selling
point solutions was a faster thing than
getting people to shift core systems. Um
and you could start selling with much
less product. I think you guys worked on
Ripling for a while with a lot of people
before you really had something to sell.
Um, and so I think it's also part of the
investing cycle of like how quickly
people expected progress from the
investing community.
I think it that's some of that is like
the nature of like the the sort of bar
raising where I think there was a period
of time where you know yeah if there was
no sort of SAS application for
I don't know whatever like time tracking
or expense management or something like
that. Yeah,
you could build a standalone thing for
that and it would get like very rapid
uptake. But as soon as you start to get
the sort of bigger core systems that now
just that comes standard in a SAS, you
know, SAS way and you know in the cloud,
not on prem software, suddenly it's like
that's not good enough anymore. Um, and
so there's like the window of
opportunity that kind of closes over
time, but eventually you need to find
sort of new islands of product market
fit that are a little bit further out
and sort of maybe over the edge of the
horizon. Um, and and I think that tends
to be sort of something that solves a a
a bigger and broader class of problem
for customers that usually requires you
to take on a lot more in order to solve
problems that are often often about
um sort of like internal business
process coordination that that that do
cut across a lot of these different
applications and it's a lot less work
for customers ultimately to be using one
thing. How do you I'm sure this has
changed over time but given platform and
broad application surface area like how
do you organize at Ripling given you
don't have like contemporary many
contemporary companies with a similar
strategy um and you can't be like I'm
going to do what Microsoft does at this
scale. I mean I think we try and um I
mean we have we have teams that build
capabilities you know that are kind of
the platform teams and then we have
application teams that are building you
know sort of hopefully out of the
underlying platform capabilities
applications and I think it's like it's
really important to have like the right
leader for these application teams like
former founders are great um but also
you need people that can like scale over
time um as as the product grows um and
so So I you know ideally in an ideal
world you want someone with just like
real ownership of those areas who could
drive it because otherwise you get this
um you get this sort of bottleneck at
the level of executive attention where
you know if I have to drive it it's just
like I can't do that I can only do that
for so many things and then inevitably a
lot of balls get dropped and so you need
people like in seat who can like really
own it and run like the business
holistically who can think about the
product roadmap the marketing
um you know the sales elements, you
know, the competition you like the whole
thing and kind of you know and
synthesize it down to like okay here's
what we're going to do. Um and that's
that's always sort of the most
challenging thing is to find those
people. I mean we we try and hire a lot
of founders at Ripling to make it work.
Um but that's always ultimately the
bottleneck.
I don't know a single founder who
doesn't feel like they could use more
owners at their own company. Like do you
um do you have any advice on how you
filter for this?
No. In terms of filtering, I think it's
hard like people who have had that
experience before. Um, I think it's uh
some sometimes it just, you know, having
a conversation with someone, you know,
are they kind of naturally,
you know, jumping to, you know, sort of
conclusions and implications about the
business and kind of getting there on
their own or, you know, how much do you
kind of need to lead them there? It's
hard. And I think the difference is like
it sort of comes out in um in like
planning in like quarterly planning like
some people show up to quarterly
planning and there's like there's a list
of they're like here are the things that
we kind of need to get done from a
product perspective and the list
inevitably sort of like you know you
unfurl it and it kind of goes like down
the hallway and and some people are like
okay well you know we're going to do
about one quarter's worth of work. we've
prioritized the list and one quarter's
worth of work is like this much of the
list and that's what we're going to get
done. That's my job. And the problem is
it's like now it's like my job to kind
of make the ends meet because like that
part that's not going to cut it. You
know, it doesn't you know, we actually
have to get a lot more done to make
things work. And so now it's it's sort
of my job to figure out like how do we
sort of bridge this gap. Um, and what
you really want is you want people who
are going to find a find a way sometimes
through seemingly impossible constraints
where they're like this is the reality
is is like it's not it's not like the
CEO of the company who's like giving me
this impossible task. Like the problem
is like this is fundamentally the
situation that we're in. Like this is
the market reality. Um, you know, we're
here, we need to be here, we can't win
unless we get there. And it's it's a lot
of that is like, you know, it's what you
see at a startup because you're sort of
doing a startup is somewhere between
completely impossible and very very
hard. And there's this just kind of very
slim sort of like uh window between
those two to make it out. And you know,
companies often have to find early on
ways to do seemingly impossible things.
And you need someone in in these roles
who's going to like find a way to make
it work. So there's the innate, there's
like finding people with that um
mentality and ability and you know
recruiting them. And then there's like
trying to get people to act more like
this, which I'm sure you do. I know that
you do across Ripling. Uh when I was
looking at the I think it was the series
A, I called 20ome people that used to
work for you. And one of the things that
was like most universally loved was uh
like I would follow Parker to the ends
of the earth because he got more out of
me than like I knew how to give in terms
of my own capability and I got more
done. What advice would you have for
founders on making that happen? It's
it's an amazing skill.
I'm not sure I'm great at and that's and
that's wonderful that that you've played
you you've sort of couched it.
I didn't say it.
There probably other people that are
like [__] [__] like you know just
as drives everything way too hard.
Totally unreasonable. Yeah. totally
unreasonable. So I I have like two
thoughts on this. One is I you know I
genuinely believe that people are
usually capable of so much more than
they believe themselves to be capable
of. People sort of grumble about the
kind of um the work culture in Silicon
Valley being sort of about this sort of
grind kind of culture. And I think what
that what that misses is it's not I
think it's important to understand like
it's not that I'm like you know why
isn't everyone in the office like seven
days a week or something like that. It's
it's like look this is the situation
that we're in and it sucks and like the
reality is is like this is you know we
need to kind of find a way to bridge
this gap and I can kind of lay out the
gap and it's not but you know I didn't
create the gap you didn't maybe you
didn't create the gap either it's just
but it like it's there and we can either
give up and go home or we can like try
and find a way. Um, and sometimes when
you kind of lay it out for people, they
can really accomplish incredible things
like like Patrick Collison has this
great site that talks about these
different organizations and how how like
you know teams of people that like you
know did the the moon landing in four
years or like the sort of Vaness lane in
San Francisco in like 12 or whatever it
was and like just the the discrepancy
between how some organizations are able
to do so much in such a small amount of
time and some organizations are Not. And
and so I think the difference between
like working really hard, you know, you
know, some people think it's like, well,
if I sort of kill myself, it's like an
extra 20%. And and actually like the
difference between teams that can really
accomplish a lot. It's it's not like 20%
on the margins. It ends up being like an
order of magnitude in terms of what you
can do. Um, and so I think you've really
got to like ask for that and ask for
people to try and find that within
themselves. Like one very concrete
example of this is I um a lot of times
sort of I get um people like to come to
to CEOs with with what I call like CO in
the box options where they say look you
can have A or you can have B like which
one is it going to be? you you tell us
like what the priority is and it's this
sort of illusion of choice where you
know the important decision has already
been made because the important decision
is like you know A or B versus like you
know A and B and so reflexively I try
whenever I get choices like that to sort
of reject the premise and and be like I
want A and B like why can A and B not
coexist is does it violate like the
second law of thermodynamics like what
um and some you know one way of looking
at that is like, oh my god, you know,
this guy like asking for something
impossible, but sometimes it's really
just about the solution is to just, you
know, think a little more deeply about
the problem and like, you know, is there
some third path? Is there, you know,
like what, you know, what's the sort of
creative approach? Because often there
is a real cost to making those
trade-offs. Um, uh, that if you can find
a way around it, um, you know, it it it
can mean the difference between success
and failure.
Yeah. One thing that's striking to me is
uh there are a lot of very talented
people at Ripling, but um I think most
people be like, "Well, they're not all
Parker Conrad except that you are
treating them like they should be,
right?" Like you're saying, like, "But I
think you can figure this out." I tend
to expect a lot of people, but you know,
in reaction, I think I like see people
do amazing things. And I I wonder if
like more founders shouldn't try
actually to like have real belief that
their people can figure more out and
we'll get a lot more from that.
You know, for me it it I mean it comes
from like you know some like like sort
of deep reservoirs of like panic and
insecurity about you know sort of like
the the company and sort of the you know
looming you know there's sort of looming
failure constantly when you're building
a business. And so the way to I think
channel that productively is is to sort
of really push it down into the organ
sort of lay out for people, you know,
here are here is the situation. you
know, when you're when you're facing um
sort of like tough situations and you
know, see if you can't get people bought
in to like, oh man, like this is like,
okay, we've got to we've got to bridge
the gap between point A and point B
versus like, you know, I've got to like
do this like task for the next month or
the next quarter. You know, it's like it
sort of you can get people to take more
responsibility for um you know, where
you need to get to. I guess I would just
posit that many leaders, they don't
necessarily push that problem down into
the organization because they don't
really believe other people can solve
it, right? And I I think if they do, I
think they'll they'll get more back. You
have capabilities teams and then you
have these um application teams like
what is the cadence of communication and
coordination there across such a big
product surface?
You know, I think that's that's an area
that like candidly like we always we
don't always get that right. Um I think
there's there's constant you know anyone
that's like trying to build in this way
there's constant tension between you
know people building at the application
layer and people building at the
platform layer because you get you know
the interface there is not always clean
and and you know you get an application
team and they don't want to build on the
platform team stuff and like you know
they're you know they they need
something slightly different and so a
lot of I think the really kind of meaty
product decisions end up being around
that kind of stuff like when you When do
you allow teams to disconnect from the
underlying systems? When do you rep
prioritize the platform team to build
the stuff that they need? You know, when
do people have to sort of, you know,
eventually migrate back onto like the
core underlying platform capabilities?
You I don't know that there's like a
good that there are good rules of thumb
about this. Um because it's one of these
problems where locally people would
almost always like prefer to disconnect.
Like it's easier for them to just like
build their own thing. But ultimately
and long-term, you know, it's the worst
thing for the business and and even the
worst thing for their application
because like you lose the benefit of
shared investment in the underlying
capabilities if you do this like you
know as the underlying systems get
better and better because you're
continuing to you know every every like
dollar of R&D that I spend on the
underlying stuff it pays off 35x because
it you know it hits you know every
system in Rippling that gets like a
little bit better because of the new
capabilities I've built in the
underlying systems. And that's the
dynamic or that's that's really the
underlying math that I think makes this
approach to building software work
better than building sort of, you know,
narrow focused point solutions. And so
you got to you got to hold on to that.
Um, which means that you've got to
ultimately build on the Lego blocks that
you have.
It's very interesting to me. I was
talking to Olivier, the uh you know
co-founder CEO of Data Dog, which I
think is one of the other true platform
companies of this era, and they bought a
company that I was on the board of in a
new space and then made them rewrite it
over the first like year and a half onto
their platform, which I don't think I'm
like exposing any secrets to say was a
painful process. And yet, like exiting
that, all of the people from the
acquired company screen were like, "We
believe, right?" like you know there's
there's religiosity in that. It's very
interesting to me that if you look at
companies from um that at least got to
scale in the last era that are still
very dominant like Workday, people tend
to make fun of these companies that have
the like you know we have our internal
language, we have a bunch of development
frameworks, we have a bunch of
components, we have a platform team, we
have applications as very insular um and
yet like this is how some of the most
dominant platforms are are built. I mean
workday obviously one in you know in the
htm industry but also like I think
there's a lot you know a lot of the
thinking around this like comes from
like Microsoft you know like you know
it's certainly the way they think about
the world
um so I think there are a lot of
you know um sort of big and even kind of
like multicategory companies that that
sort of think think about the world in
that way
rippling I mean we've been talking about
uh a bunch of principles that are very
specific to to rippling doing its own
thing versus listening to conventional
wisdom. How much do you think about
beating incumbents and hm or payroll or
identity or whatever it is versus
capturing green field and like your
strategy internally?
The two things are related. Like a lot
of the time, you know, we can we can we
can beat incumbents because of the the
sort of we've we've sort of pushed the
envelope a little bit into new horizons.
And so that allows us to solve problems
for customers that incumbents can't
solve. Um, and even like sometimes like
it's like not always clear to me
internally like what the difference is
for customers between like new
applications versus existing, you know,
and like new features versus bug fixes.
Like a lot of times like whether we
categorize something as like a fix or
like a new thing is about whether we
internally believed that this capability
was part of like the original spec. But
from the customer's perspective, it's
always just like, I wish it did this
thing and it doesn't do it. Um, you
know, so to them, like everything's a
bug. We're building a variable
compensation product right now. And like
in some sense, it's a new thing. It's a
new application, new skew, but it also
like, you know, really helps um, you
know, if you're if you're an existing
customer, it's an existing problem that
you have.
You just wanted Ripley to do this.
Yeah. they're kind of like, "Oh yeah,
like this makes like payroll easier
because I have people whether it's like
salespeople or like other other people
that are on simpler kind of you know,
variable compensation structures." A lot
of businesses end up having, you know,
bonuses, commissions,
you know, things like that that um you
know, are just kind of tough to manage
that if you did it in one place it would
be a lot easier. But to answer your
question, I think um more more directly,
you know, if you look at the headcount
of the org, like over 80% of the
engineering headcount is really focused
on the existing stuff. Very little
headcount is focused on building the new
things. Like most of it is just in
continuing to develop and sort of extend
all of the existing applications and the
underlying platform um of the system.
And some of I think why that is is like
you need fewer people when you're
building something new. Um and you don't
you don't have any existing customers
yet and you get to build on a lot of
these underlying applications. Like you
can make it very far with a very small
team. And so the you know we always kind
of have like you know four or five like
new things in the works but collectively
the teams that are building those are
it's it's not that large. It's, you
know, it might be, you know, five to
seven engineers on each one, you know,
out of an engineering org that's now,
you know, I don't know, over a thousand
people.
I'm going to use this as a a chance to
talk about AI because we're not going to
get away without that, but we'll start
with engineering approximately thousand
person engineering team, right? Um, do
you do you believe in the premise of
like do a lot more with many fewer
people over the next two years in
engineering? I like am very skeptical
that AI will be employment conserving.
Um because I just think that like in
basically every area like we have not
seen and I think most large engineering
orgs have not seen like a huge number of
efficiencies from these sort of like the
sort of coding assistants that um you
know they're they're very popular with
the engineering team. there are clearly
some ways that they, you know, that they
help. Um, but it's not like we're like,
"Oh man, we need like so many fewer
people." Yeah.
To kind of do this. And and I think that
I mean that it could be that we're just
like not very good at using them, but
like in talking to like a number of
other kind of latestage companies, I
think that that's been true for most of
the organizations that I've spoken with.
Um, I don't I don't know like quite why
that is and maybe it will come. But even
then I think like if you make it easier
to build software I think the demand for
software will actually go way up. Um and
and I think by the way I I actually
think the same like I believe the same
thing is going to be true for customer
support. I think as you um you which is
the other major area of product market
fit here that you know as you make it
easier for customers to access something
that feels like support where where the
experience is really good and it's
instantaneous and it's not you know it's
not frustrating because like you know it
takes a while to communicate something
and there's a lot of back and forth and
maybe the person doesn't know you know
what what you're asking exactly. Um I
think people will use more of that not
less. um you know even as like ticket
deflection rates go up you know we see
like at least internally at Riplane um
like you know a lot more use of like our
sort of like AI enabled support tools um
where it's clear that people have just
found that like hey actually it's like
this is an easy way to sort of get
things done quickly in the product and
so they start they start using it a lot
more and and like with on the
engineering side like one sort of theory
I have is that I think that as um you
know if and when it gets to a point
where it's just much much easier to
build software um because you know like
engineering engineers are so much more
productive I think what will happen is
rather than needing like way fewer
engineers what's going to happen is a
lot of these like core software systems
are going to end up getting like highly
verticalized um you know like you're
going to end up having rippling for
opthalmology clinics where there's going
to be a lot of specific capabilities of
the system like just for like opth
themology clinics and that's going to be
possible because you know it's like a
lot easier to build an application much
more quickly because the cost has come
down. Um and and unlike sort of people
that are building like independent
vertical software like if you're a
company that's actually building like
hey we're rippling for opthalmology
clinics the challenge is I think it's
like it's really hard to have all of the
underlying platform capabilities that
you need in that system. And so you know
some of the challenges with vertical
software historically have been that you
have this choice between like heavily
customized for the industry but missing
a lot of like core underlying
capabilities. And so if you're as a
company that needs something like you
know serious you eventually need to go
to like you need to move to Salesforce
or something from like the the thing
that's like very industry focused. And I
think what will happen is that like
actually as the cost of software
building applications comes down it will
let the sort of core companies build a
lot of like industry specific indust
industry specific vertical applications.
And so this is just kind of a long way
maybe maybe of sort of giving an example
of like why I think that like look if if
you and your small team can like vibe
code an application that gets a lot of
distribution very quickly,
so can a lot of other people. And so
inevitably what's going to happen is
like the bar will go up and like what
what customers expect um and it might
not happen immediately, right? Like you
might get you might be able to get for
some moment of time a lot of
distribution very quickly, but
eventually
they're they're going to be competitors
and like the the expectations are going
to go up, the pricing is going to come
down. You know, you're going to need to
like the frontier is going to move out
and you're going to need to be there and
that's going to take people. It's going
to require more engineers, more
investment, you know, at the sort of
bleeding edge of whatever is possible.
And the same thing I think will be true
on the go to market side that you know
that it will become harder to make
progress through the market and you're
going to need to have teams of people um
that can like interface with the world
that can talk to customers can talk to
decision makers um and like yes those
people maybe they're they're more
productive because like some of those
interactions are you know handled or or
enabled by AI but you're still going to
be competing against a set of businesses
that also have all of those
efficiencies.
And it's going to be as a result of that
like that much harder to cut through the
noise. Um, and so there's always going
to be this sort of like leading there's
going to be this frontier that you're
going to need to play at and that's
usually going to require investment and
headcount. I think I see the race the
same way and then for some set you know
there's going to be some set of
industries that have like different
enough workflows maybe not around people
but around go to market like pharma is
the classic example right if you're
designing around a a regulatory regime
like maybe that is different from
Salesforce enough I think there's one
version of like more verticalized
companies that like you know they ship
something that won't work for customers
forever and then they're investing
backwards in capabilities and in a race
against um companies that more
horizontal. I think the other version
and now I'm talking my own book because
I think there you know we have portfolio
companies that are doing well in this
direction is um uh they don't really
look at themselves as much as software
companies in the traditional category
sense. Um they look at themselves as
doing more work that people used to have
done. The horizontal players like will
clearly see this too but you know the
specialization may be useful in some
verticals.
Yeah, that makes sense. I want to go
back to something you said at the very
beginning about um being allergic to ops
because of benefits or you know from
from that experience. Uh I'm I'm sure
you've heard about a bunch of um these
ideas of well you know we we believe
we're going to need humans doing
distribution. Um they own the
distribution. These verticals are not uh
adopting AI technology as quickly as
they logically should. We're impatient
for that as technology people. let's go
buy distribution and roll services
companies up or whoever has access to
the customer. What is your perspective
on that given those are like
operationally intensive businesses?
Yeah, I'm I'm not sure that like we
fundamentally disagree because it sounds
like they're also saying hey we don't
want to be in the ops business like we
want to we want to be and so so it's
about replacing the ops with software. I
think it's hard to replace ops with
software. At least I found it difficult.
Um, you know, maybe AI changes
everything, but like, you know, at Zens,
we kind of had this this theory that was
ultimately, I think, part of like the
downfall of the company that, you know,
we could move through the market more
quickly by doing a lot of things
manually. And then, you know, we would
just replace it with software over time.
And like, it sort of turned out that it
was actually very hard to replace ops
with software like after you'd scaled it
up. Like it's a lot easier to start
small with automation and gradually grow
over time even hopefully grow quickly
but like the point is is like you you
sort of start with sort of a simpler set
you know you start with a small set of
customers I don't really think that
there are like customers with simple
needs I think all customers have sort of
like ultimately have a bunch of you know
edge cases and longtail things that they
that they require but just a smaller set
of customers is easier to deal with than
a larger set of customers and If you
start with that, I think you can
gradually expand the capabilities over
time. And if you start with like like a
really large group, it's like hard to
even capture the requirements like the
superset of all of the requirements that
you need the system to do. Um that was
like sort of the problem that we found
is like we thought we were going to
automate everything and then the
automation was just much harder and it
was constantly delayed and so we were in
this situation where the automation was
constantly coming but like never there
and that that caused a lot of issues.
So, you know, I don't know if people
will be more successful at that with um
with AI, but I think it's like really
probably important to understand if
you're in an area where things have to
be deterministically correct or not. And
that's obviously the place where um you
know it it gets like harder to do that
reliably with AI, particularly when you
have just like a really large complex
space of edge cases and longtail
scenarios and things like that that need
to like definitely work correctly every
time. Um which is sort of like the space
that we're in. if your payroll is like
not correct, you're super pissed and
like you know and and so you you kind of
need like there are deterministic rules
about how this needs to work and and so
you need to just make sure that that
rules engine is like programmed in and
it it can't be you know sort of entropy
of some of these AI systems.
Rippling is one of my favorite examples
of like software companies that I think
are very durable to um everything that's
happening with AI. Does it change
anything about your strategy
fundamentally?
It definitely
um makes us a lot more focused on data
um like a lot of other companies
obviously and and capabilities around
data. What I think is going to be very
durable with with AI is like everything
that I've seen is like building the the
applications is like uh I mean I don't
want to say it's like trivial obviously
everything's hard but what's much harder
than building AI applications are
building you know governance and
permissions and data pipelines and
things like that. Um and so you know
that those are the areas like you know
that we spend a lot of time on because
they they tend they tend to be like our
core strengths particularly because like
permissions and governance are very tied
to an understanding of the ORC. You know
understanding you know usually
permissions are about job and role and
function and or chart relationships. And
so if you understand that deeply, you
can be opinionated about who should have
access to what, you know, who can do
what in the system. And ultimately, I
think like all of these AI agents are
going to need to inherit the permissions
of a person. Like some people would say,
well, you know, maybe it can be like a
service account that has distinct
permissions. And the problem then is
like well ultimately like people are
going to be interfacing with it. And if
it has different permissions than they
do, there's just this leakage problem.
Um and so I think you always need to
ensure that the agent inherits the
permissions of the person that it's like
working with directly and then when you
do that you need to understand okay what
what permissions this does this person
have across all these systems and you
start getting into like identity and job
function um and governance and and
things like that that tend to be I think
like some of our like strengths from a
platform perspective.
A last question for you. Rippling is
already at, you know, public company
scale, but at the same time, you know,
companies are staying private for much
longer. Um, how do you think about this
choice?
I don't have any any religion about it
and and I'm not sure that like I am like
the the world's expert on it. Um, it you
know, it seems like um you know,
historically, one of the big advantages
of being public is is is liquidity. And
and and what's happened over the last
couple years is obviously there's just a
lot more liquidity in the private
markets. you know, whether it's for
employees or early investors. Um, and
so, you know, if you can if you can do
that in the private markets, you know,
there's a lot of upside to staying
private. I mean, certainly, I think you
look at like data bricks versus
snowflake and it it seems like data
bricks has had some advantages by not
being public. um you know in in that in
that fight and and and then you also
have this dynamic in in the public
markets where the public markets have
kind of become something of like a
retirement community for you know very
slow growth but very profitable
companies you know just everything is
sort of structured around that you know
like when when research analysts are
talking about like high growth versus
low growth public companies they're like
are you growing more than 20% you know
because it's not more than 30 anymore
because it doesn't exist in the public
markets And so, you know, if you're a
company that is growing a lot more
quickly than that, there just aren't
comps in the public markets. And so
there I think there's actually a lot of
risk as a result of that. Um because um
you know there aren't there aren't clear
comps on like what the multiples will
be, what the valuation's going to be. Um
that could change though. I mean like
you know we could we could look at this
in a couple years and you know suddenly
you know it's very clear the public
markets like do value fast growing
companies. um like more than than slow
growing ones and you also may have like
you know maybe there isn't as much
capital in the private markets anymore
and suddenly like you know the entire
kind of calculus changes on this. Um so
you know like we we've decided to be
private for now. Um but that doesn't
mean you know forever. So you know you
kind of get to make that choice again
every year. Um um but obviously if you
go public you know that that's a you
know it's hard to undo.
Awesome. Thanks so much, Parker. This is
great.
Cool. Thanks, Sarah.
Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priers.com.
[Music]